Perfect Secrecy


1. Cryptosystems are used for
1. Privacy
2. Authentication
3. Privacy & Authentication
4. None of the mentioned
Answer: c
Explanation: Cryptosystems which includes the process of encryption and decryption is used for both privacy and authentication.




2. The key also contains a
1. Plaintext
2. Ciphertext
3. Plaintext & Ciphertext
4. None of the mentioned
Answer: c
Explanation: The key is supplied along with a plaintext message for encryption and cipher text message for decryption.




3. The system which has insufficient information available to crypt-analyst is
1. One-time pad
2. Unconditionally secure
3. One-time pad & Unconditionally secure
4. None of the mentioned
Answer: c
Explanation: Unconditionally secure system is the one which has insufficient information available to crypt-analyst. One such system is one-time pad.




4. In Caesar cipher, each plain text is replaced by
1. Alphabet shift
2. Numerals
3. Symbols
4. None of the mentioned
Answer: a
Explanation: In Caesar cipher each plain text is replaced with a new letter obtained by an alphabetic shift.




5. In Vigenere method ______ is provided.
1. Priming key
2. Feedback
3. Priming key & Feedback
4. None of the mentioned
Answer: c
Explanation: Vigenere method which is also called as vigenere auto method priming key and feedback are used.




6. A cipher system is said to have perfect secrecy if
1. Posteriori probability is equal to priori probability
2. Posteriori probability is greater than priori probability
3. Posteriori probability is less than priori probability
4. None of the mentioned
Answer: a
Explanation: A cipher system is said to have perfect secrecy if for every message and cipher text the posteriori probability is equal to priori probability.




7. The conditions for perfect secrecy are
1. Only one key transforming message should exist
2. All keys should be equally likely
3. One key transforming message to each cipher text & all keys should be equally likely
4. None of the mentioned
Answer: c
Explanation: The conditions for perfect secrecy are, there is only one key transforming message to each cipher text and all keys should be equally likely.




8. The _____ the uncertainty, the ______ is the information content.
1. Lesser, greater
2. Greater, lesser
3. Lesser, lesser
4. Greater, greater
Answer: d
Explanation: The more uncertainty there is in predicting the occurrence of a message, the greater the information content.




9. When a system is called as unbreakable?
1. When unique solution is available
2. When unique solution is not available
3. All of the mentioned
4. None of the mentioned
View Answer
Answer: b
Explanation: A system is said to be unbreakable when unique solution is not available because of the number of equations being smaller than the number of unknown key bits.